# Direct IA Theory
Code for IA modelling. The modules here are designed to be plugged into a CosmoSIS pipeline.

Quite a bit of this stuff borrows and adapts from other people's codes. If you're interested in using any of it for published work, it's probably best if you get in touch (ssamurof@andrew.cmu.edu); I'd be happy to find the appropriate references.


## Contents:

### util

add_1h_ia:
<ul>
    <li><strong>Summary:</strong> Reads pre-computed one and two halo power spectra from the block, and add them together.</li>
    <li><strong>Language:</strong> python</li>
    <li><strong>Inputs:</strong> 1h and 2h IA power spectra P^1h_GI(k,z), P^2h_GI(k,z), P^1h_II(k,z), P^2h_II(k,z)</li>
    <li><strong>Outputs:</strong> Combined 1h+2h IA power spectrum P_GI(k,z), P_II(k,z)</li>

</ul>


flatten_pk:
<ul>
    <li><strong>Summary:</strong> Reads a pre-computed power spectrum and integrates along the redshift direction. Also applies galaxy bias and IA amplitudes if desired.</li>
    <li><strong>Language:</strong> python</li>
    <li><strong>Inputs:</strong> IA power spectra P_GI(k,z),P_II(k,z); redshift distributions p_1(z),p_2(z)</li>
    <li><strong>Outputs:</strong> Flattened spectra P_GI(k),P_II(k)</li>
</ul>

promote_ia_term:
<ul>
    <li><strong>Summary:</strong> Reads a power spectrum, renames it.</li>
    <li><strong>Language:</strong> python</li>
    <li><strong>Inputs:</strong> Generic power spectrum P(k,z)</li>
    <li><strong>Outputs:</strong> The same power spectrum, but now called something else in the data block P(k,z)</li>
</ul>


### likelihood

add_1h_ia:
<ul>
    <li><strong>Summary:</strong> Computes a likelihood for some combination of wgg, wg+ and w++ 2pt data. Scale cuts and ordering specified in the params file.</li>
    <li><strong>Language:</strong> python</li>
    <li><strong>Inputs:</strong> Theory correlations wgg, wg+, w++; data vector wgg', wg+', w++'; covariance matrix C.</li>
    <li><strong>Outputs:</strong> A likelihood and a chi2.</li>
</ul>


### power_spectra

schneider_bridle:
<ul>
    <li><strong>Summary:</strong> Computes IA power spectra using the fitting fuctions of https://arxiv.org/abs/0903.3870.</li>
    <li><strong>Language:</strong> python</li>
    <li><strong>Inputs:</strong> None</li>
    <li><strong>Outputs:</strong> One halo intrinsic alignment power spectra P^1h_GI(k,z), P^1h_II(k,z) </li>
</ul>

### projection

projected_corrs_limber:
<ul>
    <li><strong>Summary:</strong> Reads a flattened power spectrum and performs a Hankel transform with the appropriate Bessel function to generate wg+, wgg, w++ etc.</li>
    <li><strong>Language:</strong> C </li>
    <li><strong>Inputs:</strong> Flattened power spectra P(k)</li>
    <li><strong>Outputs:</strong> Real space projected correlations as a function of perpendicular separation wg+(r_p), w++(r_p), wgg(r_p).</li>
</ul>

projected_corrs_legendre:
<ul>
    <li><strong>Summary:</strong> Reads an IA power spectrum computes the line-of-sight projected correlations using Legendre polynomials.</li>
    <li><strong>Language:</strong> python </li>
    <li><strong>Inputs:</strong> IA power spectra P_GI(k,z), P_II(k,z).</li>
    <li><strong>Outputs:</strong> Real space projected correlations as a function of perpendicular separation wg+(r_p), w++(r_p), wgg(r_p).</li>
</ul>

photometric_ias:
<ul>
    <li><strong>Summary:</strong> Computes projected IA correlations in the case where one or both of the samples have finite redshift uncertainty (i.e. for photometric samples) using the prescription of https://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3491. Note that this process involves (a) computing C_ells, (b) a Hankel transform, and then (c) projecting in Pi and redshift. Step (a) and (c) are performed by this module (you'll need to call it twice in the pipeline). Step (b) requires a Hankel trasnform code such as the one in the companion module joachimi_hankel.</li>
    <li><strong>Language:</strong> python </li>
    <li><strong>Inputs:</strong> IA power spectra P_GI(k,z), P_II(k,z).</li>
    <li><strong>Outputs:</strong> (first call) angular spectra C(ell, Pi, zm); (second call) real space projected correlations as a function of perpendicular separation wg+(r_p), w++(r_p), wgg(r_p).</li>
</ul>

joachimi_hankel:
<ul>
    <li><strong>Summary:</strong> Performs the Hankel transform on C_ells generated by photometric_ias.</li>
    <li><strong>Language:</strong> C </li>
    <li><strong>Inputs:</strong> IA angular spectra as a function of multipole ell, line-of-sight separation Pi and mean redshift zm=(z1+z2)/2, C_GI(ell,Pi,zm), C_II(ell,Pi,zm).</li>
    <li><strong>Outputs:</strong> Real space correlations xi_g+(r_p,Pi,zm), xi_++(r_p,Pi,zm).</li>
</ul>
